GNU SpaceChart 3D starmapping program
-------------------------------------

GNU SpaceChart is a program for displaying maps of the stars in 3D and
rotate them. It is capable of showing only a subset of the stars in a given
data file, and only those within a given distance of the center of the
display. Also, it shows lines between stars that are closer than a given
distance.

For installation see the INSTALL file.

Included with the program is the file gliese.dat, which is based on the Gliese
Catalogue of Nearby Stars, 3rd version, which includes all known stars within
25 parsecs of the Sun.

For future releases check the SpaceChart home page at:

	http://www.gnu.org/software/spacechart/spacechart.html

Use Instructions
----------------

Open a data file with the 'File/Open' menu item of the 'Open' toolbar menu. A
map of the stars in the data file should appear in the main window. You can
rotate it by moving the mouse across it with the right button pressed.

The 'View Radius' scrollbar allows you to select which is the maximum distance
from the center star you want to see. The 'Zoom' scrollbar magnifies the center
of the image.

The "User Coords" are the equatorial latitude and longitude of the observer,
and a "North" parameter that indicates which way of the screen is
north. So, if the "north" field is 0, north is towards the top of the
screen, and if it is 180, it's towards the bottom. If you change the user
coordinates by hand, you will probably use only "round" values of "north".

If you click on a star a dialog will pop up showing the info about that star
system. This dialog allows you to center the display on that star.

The 'Max Link Shown' field select the maximum size for which links between the
stars will be shown. How these links are drawn can be selected in the 'Links'
page of the settings.

The star selection dialog allows you to select a subset of the stars to be
shown according to their luminosity, spectral class and multiplicity.

Configuration Files
-------------------

A sample configuration file, spacechartrc, is provided and installed by
default in /usr/local/etc/spacechartrc. This file contains the program
defaults and is required ro run spacechart.

These settings can be overridden by a ~/.spacechartrc file, which follows the
same format. A example of such a file, provided by Robert J. Chassel, is
available in the documentation directory.
